{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f35\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f36\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Univers{\*\falt Arial};}{\f37\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0a04020102020204}Arial Black;}
{\f61\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f62\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f64\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f65\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f66\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f67\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f68\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f69\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f71\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f72\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f74\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f75\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f76\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f77\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f78\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f79\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}{\f411\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f412\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}
{\f414\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}{\f415\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f416\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}{\f417\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}{\f418\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}
{\f419\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Tahoma (Vietnamese);}{\f420\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 Tahoma (Thai);}{\f431\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Black CE;}{\f432\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Black Cyr;}{\f434\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Black Greek;}
{\f435\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Black Tur;}{\f438\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Black Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f1\fs20\cf2\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f35\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li2\ri2\sb80\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin2\lin2\itap0 
\f36\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \ssemihidden footnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 \ssemihidden footnote reference;}{\*\cs17 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1590313
\rsid6572294\rsid10702528}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2627;}{\info{\title NTFilemon}{\author Preferred Customer}{\operator Mark Russinovich}{\creatim\yr1997\mo7\dy11\hr9\min43}{\revtim\yr2001\mo10\dy13\hr8\min36}{\version101}{\edmins34}{\nofpages3}
{\nofwords918}{\nofchars5235}{\*\company Micron Electronics, Inc.}{\nofcharsws6141}{\vern16437}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701
\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot1590313 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\f35\super\insrsid10702528 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li2\ri2\sb80\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin2\lin2\itap0 
\f36\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super\insrsid10702528 $}{\insrsid10702528  NTRegmon Help}}#{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li2\ri2\sb80\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin2\lin2\itap0 
\f36\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super\insrsid10702528 #}{\insrsid10702528  INTRO}}}{\f35\cf8\insrsid10702528 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f35\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0\i0\f37\cf8\insrsid10702528\charrsid6572294 Filemon for Windows NT/2000/XP/9x
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f35\cf8\insrsid10702528\charrsid6572294 Copyright \'a9 1996-2001 Mark Russinovich and Bryce Cogswell
\par Sysinternals - www.sysinternals.com}{\f35\cf8\insrsid10702528\charrsid6572294 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f35\insrsid10702528 
\par }{\b\f35\cf2\insrsid10702528 Introduction}{\f35\insrsid10702528 
\par 
\par }{\i\f35\insrsid10702528 Filemon}{\f35\insrsid10702528 
 is an application that monitors and displays all file system activity on a system. It has advanced filtering and search capabilities that make it a powerful tool for exploring the way NT works, seeing how applications use the files and DLLs, or tra
cking down problems in system or application configurations. 
\par 
\par }{\i\f35\insrsid10702528 Filemon}{\f35\insrsid10702528  works on NT 4.0, Windows 2000, }{\f35\insrsid1590313 Windows XP, }{\f35\insrsid10702528 Windows 95, Windows 98 and Windows ME.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf2\insrsid10702528 Starting  Filemon}{\f35\insrsid10702528 
\par 
\par Simply run }{\i\f35\insrsid10702528 Filemon}{\f35\insrsid10702528  (filemon.exe). }{\i\f35\insrsid10702528 Windows NT/2K note: you must have administrative privilege to run Filemon}{\f35\insrsid10702528 . When }{\i\f35\insrsid10702528 Filemon}{
\f35\insrsid10702528  is started for the first time it will monitor all local hard drives. Menus, hot-keys, or toolbar buttons can be used to clear the window, select and deselect monitored drives (Windows NT/2K), save the monitored data t
o a file, and to filter and search output. 
\par 
\par As events are printed to the output, they are tagged with a sequence number. If }{\i\f35\insrsid10702528 Filemon\rquote s }{\f35\insrsid10702528 
internal buffers are overflowed during extremely heavy activity, this will be reflected with gaps in the sequence number.
\par 
\par On Windows NT/2K there is a special file name, DASD (Direct Access Storage Device), that is used to indicate file I/O that is bypassing file system structures and directly effecting data on the logical partition, or I/O that is targeted at file system-in
ternal unnamed data streams. Unnamed data streams are used to represent file system metadata files such as the File Allocation Table in the FAT file system, or the Master File Table (MFT) in NTFS. Also on Windows NT/2K, an asterisk (\lquote *\rquote 
) following an IRP_MJ_READ or IRP_MJ_WRITE indicates paging I/O.
\par 
\par Each time you exit }{\i\f35\insrsid10702528 Filemon}{\f35\insrsid10702528  it remembers the position of the window and the widths of the output columns.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf2\insrsid10702528 Selecting Drives (Windows NT/2K)}{\f35\insrsid10702528 
\par 
\par The Drives menu can be used to select and deselect monitored drives. N
ote that if you deselect a network drive that is under the control as the same driver (network redirector) controlling other network drives, all drives will be deselected. The same applies for selecting a network drive for monitoring.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf2\insrsid10702528 Formatting Drives (Windows NT)}{\f35\insrsid10702528 
\par 
\par You can watch drives being formatted using }{\i\f35\insrsid10702528 Filemon}{\f35\insrsid10702528 , however, after a format is complete you must deselect and reselect the drive in order to continue monitoring it. 
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf2\insrsid10702528 Filtering Output}{\f35\insrsid10702528 
\par 
\par Use the Filter dialog, which is accessed with a toolbar button or the Edit|Filter/Highlight menu selection, to select what data will be shown in the list view. The \lquote *\rquote 
 wildcard matches arbitrary strings, and the filters are case-insensitive.  Only matches shown in the include filter, but that are not excluded with the exclude filter, are displayed. Use \lquote ;\rquote  to separate multiple strings in a filter (e.g. 
\'93*filemon*;*temp*\'94).  }{\i\f35\insrsid10702528 Windows NT/2000 note}{\f35\insrsid10702528 : because of the asynchronous nature of most file I/O, filtering on the result field is not possible.
\par 
\par For example, if the include filter is \'93c:\\temp\'94, and the exclude filter is \'93c:\\temp\\subdir\'94, all references to files and directories under c:\\temp, except to those under c:\\temp\\subdir will be monitored.
\par 
\par Wildcards allow for complex pattern matching, making it possible to match specific file accesses by specific applications, for example. The include filter \'93Winword*Windows\'94 would have }{\i\f35\insrsid10702528 Filemon}{\f35\insrsid10702528 
 only show accesses by Microsoft Word to files and directories that include the word \'93Windows\'94.\tab 
\par 
\par Use the highlight filter specify output that you want to have highlighted in the listview output. Select highlighting colors with Edit|Highlight Colors.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf2\insrsid10702528 Limiting Output}{\f35\insrsid10702528 
\par 
\par The History Depth dialog, accessed via toolbar button or the Edit|History menu item, allows you to specify the maximum number of lines that will be remembered in the output window. A depth of 0 is used to signify no limit.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf2\insrsid10702528 Searching the Output}{\f35\insrsid10702528 
\par 
\par You can search the output window for strings using the Find menu item (or 
the find toolbar button). Once you have opened a Find dialog and hit the FindNext button, you can repeat the search without changing the focus back to the Find dialog by hitting the F3 key.
\par 
\par To start a search at a particular line in the output, select the desired line by clicking on the far left column (the index number). If no line is selected a new search starts at the first entry in searching down, and at the last entry for searching up.

\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs20\cf2\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f35\insrsid10702528 Options
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f35\insrsid10702528 
\par }{\i\f35\insrsid10702528 Filemon}{\f35\insrsid10702528  can either timestamp events or show their duratio
n. The Options menu and the clock toolbar button let you toggle between the two modes. The button on the toolbar shows the current mode with a clock or a stopwatch. When showing duration the Time field in the output shows the number of seconds it took for
 the underlying file system to service particular requests. The Options|Show Milliseconds menu entry lets you add millisecond resolution to times presented when }{\i\f35\insrsid10702528 Filemon }{\f35\insrsid10702528 shows clock times.
\par 
\par You can toggle }{\i\f35\insrsid10702528 Filemon}{\f35\insrsid10702528  to always remain a top window with the Options|Always On Top menu item. In addition, you can toggle }{\i\f35\insrsid10702528 Filemon}{\f35\insrsid10702528 
 not to scroll the listview via the Options|Auto Scroll menu item or corresponding toolbar button.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf2\insrsid10702528 Font Selection
\par 
\par }{\f35\insrsid10702528 Use the Edit|Font menu item to change the font used in the listview.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf2\insrsid10702528 Jumping to a Directory in }{\b\i\f35\cf2\insrsid10702528 Explorer}{\f35\insrsid10702528 
\par 
\par If you come across a file or directory name in the output that you want to modify or view in }{\i\f35\insrsid10702528 Filemon}{\f35\insrsid10702528 , you can jump the directory by double-clicking on the output line. }{\i\f35\insrsid10702528 Fielmon}{
\f35\insrsid10702528  will launch }{\i\f35\insrsid10702528 Explorer}{\f35\insrsid10702528  and navigate directly to the directory or file in which the directory resides. 
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf2\insrsid10702528 Reporting Bugs and Feedback}{\f35\insrsid10702528 
\par 
\par If you encounter a problem while running }{\i\f35\insrsid10702528 Filemon}{\f35\insrsid10702528 , please visit www.sysinternals.com to obtain the latest version. If you still have problems, please record all the infor
mation in the top few lines of a Blue Screen (if you encounter one), as well as the section of addresses and driver names just above the administrative message. Determine if the problem is reproducible, and if so, how, and send this information to:
\par 
\par \tab mark@sysinternals.com and
\par \tab cogswell@winternals.com
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f35\cf2\insrsid10702528 Licensing
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f35\insrsid10702528 
\par If you want to license }{\i\f35\insrsid10702528 Filemon}{\f35\insrsid10702528  for redistribution, or license }{\i\f35\insrsid10702528 Filemon}{\f35\insrsid10702528  source code, please contact licensing@sysinternals.com.
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f35\insrsid10702528 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f35\insrsid10702528 
\par }}