{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f35\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f36\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Univers{\*\falt Arial};}{\f62\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f63\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f65\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f66\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f67\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f68\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f69\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f70\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f72\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f73\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f75\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}
{\f76\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f77\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f78\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f79\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f80\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}
{\f412\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f413\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}{\f415\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}{\f416\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f417\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}
{\f418\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}{\f419\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}{\f420\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Tahoma (Vietnamese);}{\f421\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 Tahoma (Thai);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs20\cf2\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{
\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{
\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li2\ri2\sb80\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin2\lin2\itap0 
\f36\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \ssemihidden footnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 \ssemihidden footnote reference;}{\*\cs17 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs18 \additive \i 
\sbasedon10 Emphasis;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1794731\rsid1913618\rsid2176896\rsid2567988\rsid3946201\rsid5729494\rsid6706687\rsid6957022\rsid8221430\rsid8280983\rsid8990388\rsid9260932\rsid9263828\rsid9505992\rsid11040982\rsid11733707\rsid12678455\rsid13966820
}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2627;}{\info{\title NTFilemon}{\author Preferred Customer}{\operator Mark Russinovich}{\creatim\yr1998\mo12\dy4\hr9\min46}{\revtim\yr2002\mo10\dy22\hr9\min47}{\version64}{\edmins19}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords1028}
{\nofchars5866}{\*\company Micron Electronics, Inc.}{\nofcharsws6881}{\vern16437}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0
\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot6957022 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\i\f35\super\insrsid6957022\charrsid3946201 ${\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li2\ri2\sb80\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin2\lin2\itap0 \f36\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super\insrsid6957022 $}{\insrsid6957022  Regmon Help}}#{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li2\ri2\sb80\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin2\lin2\itap0 \f36\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super\insrsid6957022 #}{\insrsid6957022  INTRO}}}{\i\f35\insrsid6957022\charrsid3946201 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\f35\cf8\insrsid13966820\charrsid11733707 Regmon}{\i0\f35\cf8\insrsid3946201\charrsid11733707 
:}{\i0\f35\cf8\insrsid13966820\charrsid11733707  Registry Monitor}{\i0\f35\cf8\insrsid6957022\charrsid11733707 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f35\cf8\insrsid2176896\charrsid11733707 Copyright \'a9 1996-2002}{\b\f35\cf8\insrsid6957022\charrsid11733707 
 Mark Russinovich and Bryce Cogswell
\par Sysinternals - www.sysinternals.com}{\f35\cf8\insrsid6957022\charrsid11733707 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f35\insrsid6957022 
\par }{\b\f35\cf2\insrsid6957022 Introduction}{\f35\insrsid6957022 
\par 
\par }{\i\f35\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{\f35\insrsid6957022 
 is an application that monitors and displays all Registry activity on a system. It has advanced filtering and search capabilities that make it a powerful tool for exploring the way Windows works, seeing how applications use the Registry, or tracking down
 problems in system or application configurations. 
\par 
\par }{\i\f35\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{\f35\insrsid6957022  works on }{\f35\insrsid9263828 Windows 95, 98, Me, NT, 2000, XP and .NET Server}{\f35\insrsid6957022 .
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf2\insrsid6957022 Starting Regmon}{\f35\insrsid6957022 
\par 
\par Simply run the }{\i\f35\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{\f35\insrsid6957022  GUI (Regmon.exe). }{\i\f35\insrsid6957022 Windows NT/2000 note: You must have administrative privilege to run Regmon}{\f35\insrsid6957022 . Menu
s, hot-keys, or toolbar buttons can be used to clear the window, save the monitored data to a file, and to filter and search output.  
\par 
\par As events are printed to the output, they are tagged with a sequence number. If }{\i\f35\insrsid6957022 Regmon\rquote s }{\f35\insrsid6957022 internal buffers are overflowed
 during extremely heavy activity, this will be reflected with gaps in the sequence number.
\par 
\par Each time you exit }{\i\f35\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{\f35\insrsid6957022  it remembers the position of the window and the widths of the output columns.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf2\insrsid6957022 Filtering Output}{\f35\insrsid6957022 
\par 
\par Use the }{\b\f35\insrsid8280983\charrsid8280983 Options}{\b\f35\insrsid6957022\charrsid8280983 |Filter/Highlight}{\f35\insrsid6957022  dialog t
o select what data will be shown in the list view. The filters are processed against the text in all the output columns except the sequence number and time. The \lquote *\rquote 
 wildcard matches arbitrary strings, filters are case-insensitive.  Only matches shown in the include filter, but that are not excluded with the exclude filter, are displayed. Use \lquote ;\rquote  to separate multiple filter component strings (e.g. \'93
CurrentControl;Software\'94). 
\par 
\par For example, if the include filter is \'93HKLM\\\'94, and the exclude filter is \'93HKLM\\System*\'94, all references to keys and values under HKLM\\, except to those under HKLM\\System would be monitored. 
\par 
\par Wildcards allow for complex pattern matching, making it possible to match specific Registry accesses by specific applications, for example. The include filter \'93Winword*Windows\'94 would have }{\i\f35\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{\f35\insrsid6957022 
 only show accesses by Microsoft Word to keys and values that include the word \'93Windows\'94.\tab 
\par 
\par Use the highlight filter specify output that you want to have highlighted in the listview output. Select highlighting colors with }{\b\f35\insrsid8280983\charrsid8280983 Options}{\b\f35\insrsid6957022\charrsid8280983 |Highlight Colors}{
\f35\insrsid6957022 .
\par }{\b\f35\cf2\insrsid6957022 
\par Limiting Output}{\f35\insrsid6957022 
\par 
\par The History Depth dialog, accessed via toolbar button or the }{\b\f35\insrsid1794731\charrsid1794731 Options}{\b\f35\insrsid6957022\charrsid1794731 |History }{\b\f35\insrsid1794731\charrsid1794731 Depth}{\f35\insrsid1794731  }{\f35\insrsid6957022 
menu item, allows you to specify the maximum number of lines that will be remembered in the output window. A depth of 0 is used to signify no limit.
\par }{\f35\insrsid9260932 
\par }{\b\f35\cf2\insrsid9260932\charrsid6706687 Copying and Deleting Ouptut
\par }{\f35\insrsid9260932 
\par You can copy output lines to the clipboard by selecting them and pressing Ctrl+C or using }{\b\f35\insrsid9260932\charrsid5729494 Edit|Copy}{\f35\insrsid9260932 . To delete lines from the output select them and hit the delete key or enter }{
\b\f35\insrsid9260932\charrsid5729494 Edit|Delete}{\f35\insrsid9260932 .
\par }{\f35\insrsid6957022 
\par }{\b\f35\cf2\insrsid6957022 Searching the Output}{\f35\insrsid6957022 
\par 
\par You can search the output window for strings using the }{\b\f35\insrsid1913618\charrsid1913618 Edit|Find}{\f35\insrsid6957022  menu item (or the find toolbar button). Once you have 
opened a Find dialog and hit the FindNext button, you can repeat the search by hitting the F3 key.}{\f35\insrsid8990388  To search from the bottom to top of the output hit shift+F3.}{\f35\insrsid6957022 
\par 
\par To start a search at a particular line in the output, select the desired line by clicking it. If no line is selected a new search starts at the first entry in searching down, and at the last entry for searching up.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs20\cf2\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f35\insrsid6957022 Options
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f35\insrsid6957022 
\par }{\i\f35\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{\f35\insrsid6957022  can either timestamp events or show the time elapsed since you last cleared the output window or started }{\i\f35\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{\f35\insrsid6957022 . The }{
\b\f35\insrsid6957022\charrsid11040982 Options}{\f35\insrsid6957022 
 menu and the clock toolbar button let you toggle between the two modes. The button on the toolbar shows the current mode with a clock or a stopwatch. When showing duration the Time field in the output shows the number of seconds it took for the under
lying file system to service particular requests. The }{\b\f35\insrsid6957022\charrsid9505992 Options|Show Milliseconds}{\f35\insrsid6957022  menu entry lets you add millisecond resolution to times presented when }{\i\f35\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{
\f35\insrsid6957022  shows clock times.
\par 
\par You can toggle }{\i\f35\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{\f35\insrsid6957022  to always remain a top window with the Options|Always On Top menu item. In addition, you can toggle }{\i\f35\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{\f35\insrsid6957022 
 not to scroll the listview via the Options|Auto Scroll menu item or corresponding toolbar button.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf2\insrsid6957022 Font Selection
\par 
\par }{\f35\insrsid6957022 Use the }{\b\f35\insrsid8221430\charrsid8221430 Options}{\b\f35\insrsid6957022\charrsid8221430 |Font}{\f35\insrsid6957022  menu item to change the font used in the listview.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf2\insrsid6957022 Jumping to a Key or Value in }{\b\i\f35\cf2\insrsid6957022 Regedit}{\f35\insrsid6957022 
\par 
\par If you come across a key or value name in the output that you want to modify or view in }{\i\f35\insrsid6957022 Regedit}{\f35\insrsid6957022 , you can do so simply by double-clicking on the line containing the name or pressing the }{\i\f35\insrsid6957022 
Regedit}{\f35\insrsid6957022  toolbar button. }{\i\f35\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{\f35\insrsid6957022  will launch }{\i\f35\insrsid6957022 Regedit}{\f35\insrsid6957022  (if it hasn\rquote 
t been launched already) and navigate directly to the value or key. Note that if you select a non-existent value or key }{\i\f35\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{\f35\insrsid6957022  will take }{\i\f35\insrsid6957022 Regedit}{\f35\insrsid6957022 
 to a position as close as possible to where the value or key would be located.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs20\cf2\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f35\insrsid6957022 Monitoring Boot-Time Registry Access (Windows NT/2K only)
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f35\insrsid6957022 
\par }{\f35\cf1\insrsid6957022 To use }{\cs18\i\f35\cf1\insrsid6957022 Regmon's}{\f35\cf1\insrsid6957022  boot logging feature simply select the "Log Boot" menu entry. }{\cs18\i\f35\cf1\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{\f35\cf1\insrsid6957022 
 will indicate that starting the next time the system boots Registry activity will be monitored and recorded to a log file named REGMON.LOG in your system root directory. When you make this selection }{\cs18\i\f35\cf1\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{
\f35\cf1\insrsid6957022  configures itself as the very first driver to ini
tialize in the system, enabling it to capture the Registry startup activity of all other device drivers and services, including critical boot drivers such as SCSI miniport drivers and boot file system drivers.}{\f35\insrsid6957022  
\par 
\par }{\cs18\i\f35\cf1\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{\f35\cf1\insrsid6957022  stops recording to the log file when you start the }{\cs18\i\f35\cf1\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{\f35\cf1\insrsid6957022 
 GUI, and it will only log a single boot. Logging is therefore also stopped when the system shuts down, unless you have re-enabled boot-time logging for the subsequent boot. The format of the log file is the same tab-delineated text as a standard }{
\cs18\i\f35\cf1\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{\f35\cf1\insrsid6957022  output file that can be viewed with any editor. 
\par }{\f35\insrsid6957022 
\par }{\f35\cf1\insrsid6957022 Before you use the boot-logging feature you should ensure that there is ample free space on your system drive. Capturing Registry activity from startup to shutdown on an NT 4.0 system will
 generate a log file with 90,000-120,000 records (7-10 MB in size), whereas an identically configured NT 5.0 system (Beta 2) will generate 140,000-160,000 records (15-25 MB's of log data). If }{\cs18\i\f35\cf1\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{
\f35\cf1\insrsid6957022  fills the disk while writing to the log it will truncate the log file and leave a message in it indicating that the disk did not have enough free space. }{\cs18\i\f35\cf1\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{\f35\cf1\insrsid6957022 
 aborts logging and cleans up the log in such cases so that lack of disk space will not prevent a successful boot.}{\f35\insrsid6957022 
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf2\insrsid6957022 Reporting Bugs and Feedback}{\f35\insrsid6957022 
\par 
\par If you encounter a problem while running }{\i\f35\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{\f35\insrsid6957022 
, please visit www.sysinternals.com to obtain the latest version. If you still have problems, please record all the information in the top few lines of a Blue Screen (if you encounter one), as well as the section of ad
dresses and driver names just above the administrative message. Determine if the problem is reproducible, and if so, how, and send this information to:
\par 
\par \tab mark@sysinternals.com and
\par \tab cogswell@winternals.com
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f35\cf2\insrsid6957022 Licensing
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f35\insrsid6957022 
\par If you want to license }{\i\f35\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{\f35\insrsid6957022  for redistribution, or license }{\i\f35\insrsid6957022 Regmon}{\f35\insrsid6957022  source code, please contact licensing@sysinternals.com.
\par 
\par }}